Define the minimal set of portable functionality (#247)
jakartaee/data: spec/src/main/asciidoc/portability.asciidoc

==== Document Databases

Document databases provide query flexibility akin to relational databases, offering robust query capabilities. They encourage denormalization for performance optimization. When interfacing with document databases, Jakarta Data goes a step further by supporting both built-in repositories: CrudRepository and PageableRepository. Additionally, method by query is implemented, though developers should be aware that some keywords may not be universally supported.

These portability considerations reflect Jakarta Data's commitment to providing a consistent data access experience across diverse NoSQL database types. While specific capabilities and query support may vary, Jakarta Data aims to simplify data access, promoting flexibility and compatibility in NoSQL database interactions.

==== Graph Database

> A Graph database, a specialized NoSQL variant, excels in managing intricate data relationships, rivaling even traditional relational databases. Its unique strength lies in its ability to handle complex relationships, enhanced by including direction and associated properties known as edges.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Graph database, a specialized NoSQL variant, excels in managing intricate data relationships, rivaling even traditional relational databases. Its unique strength lies in its ability to handle both directed and undirected edges  (or relationships) between vertices (or nodes), including the ability to store properties on both vertices and edges.```

> In Jakarta Data, Graph databases support advanced querying capabilities, akin to relational databases, while providing extensive support for method by query keywords. Additionally, they fully implement CrudRepository and PageableRepository methods, ensuring seamless data access and manipulation within this specialized NoSQL database type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Graph databases usually can answer queries that returns rows with either flat objects, or collections or mixtures of them. Portability is guaranteed only for the mapping of rows to classes, for the fact that queries specified via annotations or other means are supported and that queries derived from keywords and combinations of mapped classes/properties will be translated into vendor specify query.
```
